blosxom is...

Blosxom (pronounced "Blossom") is a lightweight yet feature-packed
weblog application designed from the ground up with simplicity,
usability, and interoperability in mind.

Fundamental is its reliance upon the file system, folders and files as
its content database. Blosxom's weblog entries are plain text files
like any other. Write from the comfort of your favorite text editor
and hit the Save button. Create, edit, rename, and delete entries on
the command-line, via FTP, WebDAV, or anything else you might use to
manipulate your files. There's no import or export; entries are
nothing more complex than title on the first line, body being
everything thereafter.

Despite its tiny footprint, Blosxom doesn't skimp on features,
sporting the majority of features one would find in any other Weblog
application.

Blosxom is simple, straightforward, minimalist Perl affording even the
dabbler an opportunity for experimentation and customization. And
last, but not least, Blosxom is open source and free for the taking
and altering.

features...

    * Absolutely FREE for the taking!
    * Weblogging in under 15 minutes or your money back ;-)
    * Minimal requirements means Blosxom runs just about anywhere.
    * Write from the comfort of your favourite text editor -- be it
      BBEdit, vi, emacs, notepad, ...
    * Makes use of all the operating system and Web server beneath its
      feet have to offer -- whether Mac OS X and Apache or Windows XP
      and IIS. 
    * Multiple Weblogs with only one Blosxom installation.
    * Permalinks point to (aka bookmark) a particular story in the
      context of its posting day. 
    * By-day, by-month, and by-year "archives".
    * Flavour via a customizable template system.
    * RSS syndication and aggregation.
    * Small (<= 91 lines of actual code ;-) and lightweight.
    * Intelligent defaults.
    * Minimalist in terms of requirements and know-how, yet
      feature-packed and infinitely extensible. 

philosophy...

The design philosophy underpinning Blosxom is a focus on the nexus of
simplicity, usability, and interoperability. Blogging should be as
simple as typing away in your text editor of choice and hitting
Save. Blogging should be as intuitive and second nature as working
with files and directories. A blogging system should be extensible
without requiring much in the way of specific know-how; it should
interoperate with and make full use of all the operating system and
Web server beneath its feet have to offer.
